Next up we have another pseudo class that's often used to trigger animations which is focus.
So my little description here is that it triggers when an element receives focus and you have you wondering
what does that actually mean.
And if you read the docs it doesn't necessarily make it that much clearer but here on M.D and says that
the focus pseudo class represents an element such as a form input that has received focus.
It is generally triggered when the user clicks or taps on an element or selects it with the keyboards
tab key.
So there's this idea of something having focus which is not exactly the same as something being clicked
always.
Which is kind of confusing which I'll get into with an example.
For now let's let that be.
So in this example selecting all inputs just like I did with the hover where I did all divs when there
hovered on this time all inputs or any input that has the focused state.
So if the user clicks in the input or uses the tab key to navigate to that input showing that it has
the focus of the page make the text read show that the user is currently using it or they're currently
focused on that input.
So back in code pen let's add a simple and put it after the paragraph We'll leave it as input type Pickle's
text.
Here we go.
We have a beautiful looking web page.
So this has focus are ready when I click on it.
We're not styling it on our own but by default this is the kind of outline effect you get depending
on the browser you use it might look different but this is the browser default focus style because it's
important to show that something has focus.
Otherwise it's very confusing if you can't see what can put you working with it would make for a very
bad experience.
But we can override that of course.
And we're going to not that we're going to improve it very much in this case.
But when would you input focus.
But do let's make it more obvious let's do background again.
Let's make it green.
How about Teal.
I like to save.
All right.
So it doesn't have focus and now it has focus.
Now it doesn't.
So that works as I said you could also use the tab key.
So it just hit it.
It's kind of hard to tell.
Now the button has focus.
I'm using the tab key.
Now I'm on the code pen page and I'm cycling through.
So me start over here.
OK.
I just hit it again one more time hit tab.
It has focus so I can do that with tab or clicking.
You'll just have to trust me when I say that I'm using tab and when I go to the button.
This currently has focus as well but nothing's happening to it because we didn't style it.
So let's do that now.
So a select button colon focus.
And let's do two things.
And I can read pretty.
But let's start with the border radius.
So we'll make more rounded corners.
Let's do 10 pixels and then let's also do background color and I'll do a hex this time.
So just showing you.
You know you can stuff this with multiple things that you're changing or styling not just a single background
color of course.
So now I can tab over and now that button has focus it's turn green and it's rounded that as soon as
I'd tab away or select something else with focus it goes back to that boring old state until I hover
over it.
And that's pretty much it for focus.
We have one more pseudo class that will take a look at which is active and then we'll move on to actually
making prettier animations.